---
title: Our Motivation
description: Our motivation to build the Microsoft Entra PowerShell.

ms.service: microsoft-entra-powershell
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 01/25/2024
ms.author: eunicewaweru
ms.reviewer: stevemutungi
manager: CelesteDG
author: msewaweru
---

# Introduction

We created the Microsoft Entra PowerShell module to simplify complex tasks, enhance usability, and boost productivity. Our motivation also comes from the collaborative nature of the PowerShell community. We believe that your contributions can help others, creating a shared ecosystem of knowledge and growth. We invite you to join us in the innovative journey.

## Microsoft Graph PowerShell ❤️ Microsoft Entra PowerShell

Microsoft Entra PowerShell is a part of our increased investment in Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK. It brings high-quality and scenario-optimized Entra resource management to the Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK. Still, it keeps all the benefits of Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK for authorization, connection management, error handling, and (low-level) API coverage. As Microsoft Entra PowerShell builds on the Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK, it's interoperable.

## Benefits of Microsoft Entra PowerShell

- **Focus on usability and quality**: Microsoft Entra PowerShell offers human-readable parameters, deliberate parameter set specification, inline documentation, and core PowerShell fundamentals like pipelining.

- **Backward compatibility with AzureAD module**: Microsoft Entra PowerShell accelerates migration from the recently announced AzureAD module deprecation.

- **Flexible and granular authorization**: Consistent with Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK, Microsoft Entra PowerShell enables administrative consent for the permissions you want to grant to the application and supports specifying your own application identity for maximum granularity in app permission assignment. You can also use certificate, Service Principal, or Managed Identity authentication patterns.

- **Open source**: The Microsoft Entra PowerShell module is open source, allowing contributions from the community to create great PowerShell experiences and share them with everyone. Open source promotes collaboration and facilitates the development of innovative business solutions. You can view Microsoft's customizations and adapt them to meet your needs.

### When to use which PowerShell module

Here's a guide outlining the two modules. They target different levels of usability.

| Area  | Microsoft Graph PowerShell | Microsoft Entra PowerShell |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Use case  | low-level, flexibility  | scenario-based |
| Usability  | developer focused  | IT Pro focused |
| Freshness  | always-current  | Follows Microsoft Graph releases |
| Coverage  | comprehensive, across Graph  | Microsoft Entra resources |
| Generation  | autogenerated  | human-authored |

### Putting you in the driver's seat

With the repository being public, you can examine the Microsoft Entra PowerShell commands to view any custom logic, the underlying Microsoft Graph SDK, or APIs. It gives you the flexibility to customize the commands further if needed. We highly encourage you and the community to provide feedback on scenarios and use cases to help us improve the Microsoft Entra module. For example, you can suggest new parameter sets, new commands, documentation improvements, or new logic to assist others on a larger scale.

### Accelerating migration from legacy modules

The module also offers significant (over _98%_) compatibility  with the [deprecated AzureAD module][azureADDeprecationArticle] to accelerate migration.

[azureADDeprecationArticle]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-entra-blog/important-update-deprecation-of-azure-ad-powershell-and-msonline/ba-p/4094536
